LLM provider: gemini
OPENAI key set: False
GEMINI key set: True
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'queued', 'status': 'accepted', 'message': 'Research request accepted.', 'details': {'query': 'Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.'}, 'result': None}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'planning', 'status': 'running', 'message': 'Breaking the query into executable research steps.', 'details': {'query': 'Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.'}}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'planning', 'status': 'complete', 'message': 'Planner generated a research plan.', 'details': {'steps': ['Search recent arXiv and Semantic Scholar papers', 'Extract methods, datasets, and evaluation trends', 'Summarize strengths, weaknesses, and open problems', 'Verify claims against source evidence', 'Generate a structured report with citations'], 'search_queries': ['Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.', '"Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches." recent research', 'Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches. survey review']}}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'retrieval', 'status': 'running', 'message': 'Searching papers and indexing source material.', 'details': {'search_queries': ['Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.', '"Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches." recent research', 'Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches. survey review']}}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'retrieval', 'status': 'complete', 'message': 'Retrieved 15 source documents.', 'details': {'documents': [{'title': 'Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10212v1', 'authors': ['Ashutosh Anshul', 'Shreyas Gopal', 'Deepu Rajan', 'Eng Siong Chng'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'content': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Divide and Conquer: Multimodal Video Deepfake Detection via Cross-Modal Fusion and Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2602.00209v1', 'authors': ['Qingcao Li', 'Miao He', 'Liang Yi', 'Qing Wen', 'Yitao Zhang', 'Hongshuo Jin', 'Peng Cheng', 'Zhongjie Ba', 'Li Lu', 'Kui Ren'], 'year': 2026, 'abstract': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'content': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06564v4', 'authors': ['Sanjay Saha', 'Rashindrie Perera', 'Sachith Seneviratne', 'Tamasha Malepathirana', 'Sanka Rasnayaka', 'Deshani Geethika', 'Terence Sim', 'Saman Halgamuge'], 'year': 2023, 'abstract': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'content': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2', 'authors': ['Bartłomiej Marek', 'Piotr Kawa', 'Piotr Syga'], 'year': 2024, 'abstract': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'content': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Evaluation of an Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Dataset using Unimodal and Multimodal Detectors', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.02993v1', 'authors': ['Hasam Khalid', 'Minha Kim', 'Shahroz Tariq', 'Simon S. Woo'], 'year': 2021, 'abstract': "Significant advancements made in the generation of deepfakes have caused security and privacy issues. Attackers can easily impersonate a person's identity in an image by replacing his face with the target person's face. Moreover, a new domain of cloning human voices using deep-learning technologies is also emerging. Now, an attacker can generate realistic cloned voices of humans using only a few seconds of audio of the target person. With the emerging threat of potential harm deepfakes can cause, researchers have proposed deepfake detection methods. However, they only focus on detecting a single modality, i.e., either video or audio. On the other hand, to develop a good deepfake detector that can cope with the recent advancements in deepfake generation, we need to have a detector that can detect deepfakes of multiple modalities, i.e., videos and audios. To build such a detector, we need a dataset that contains video and respective audio deepfakes. We were able to find a most recent deepfake dataset, Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Detection Dataset (FakeAVCeleb), that contains not only deepfake videos but synthesized fake audios as well. We used this multimodal deepfake dataset and performed detailed baseline experiments using state-of-the-art unimodal, ensemble-based, and multimodal detection methods to evaluate it. We conclude through detailed experimentation that unimodals, addressing only a single modality, video or audio, do not perform well compared to ensemble-based methods. Whereas purely multimodal-based baselines provide the worst performance.", 'content': "Significant advancements made in the generation of deepfakes have caused security and privacy issues. Attackers can easily impersonate a person's identity in an image by replacing his face with the target person's face. Moreover, a new domain of cloning human voices using deep-learning technologies is also emerging. Now, an attacker can generate realistic cloned voices of humans using only a few seconds of audio of the target person. With the emerging threat of potential harm deepfakes can cause, researchers have proposed deepfake detection methods. However, they only focus on detecting a single modality, i.e., either video or audio. On the other hand, to develop a good deepfake detector that can cope with the recent advancements in deepfake generation, we need to have a detector that can detect deepfakes of multiple modalities, i.e., videos and audios. To build such a detector, we need a dataset that contains video and respective audio deepfakes. We were able to find a most recent deepfake dataset, Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Detection Dataset (FakeAVCeleb), that contains not only deepfake videos but synthesized fake audios as well. We used this multimodal deepfake dataset and performed detailed baseline experiments using state-of-the-art unimodal, ensemble-based, and multimodal detection methods to evaluate it. We conclude through detailed experimentation that unimodals, addressing only a single modality, video or audio, do not perform well compared to ensemble-based methods. Whereas purely multimodal-based baselines provide the worst performance.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Concentration of research funding leads to decreasing marginal returns', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/1602.07396v1', 'authors': ['Philippe Mongeon', 'Christine Brodeur', 'Catherine Beaudry', 'Vincent Lariviere'], 'year': 2016, 'abstract': 'In most countries, basic research is supported by research councils that select, after peer review, the individuals or teams that are to receive funding. Unfortunately, the number of grants these research councils can allocate is not infinite and, in most cases, a minority of the researchers receive the majority of the funds. However, evidence as to whether this is an optimal way of distributing available funds is mixed. The purpose of this study is to measure the relation between the amount of funding provided to 12,720 researchers in Quebec over a fifteen year period (1998-2012) and their scientific output and impact from 2000 to 2013. Our results show that both in terms of the quantity of papers produced and of their scientific impact, the concentration of research funding in the hands of a so-called "elite" of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns. Also, we find that the most funded researchers do not stand out in terms of output and scientific impact.', 'content': 'In most countries, basic research is supported by research councils that select, after peer review, the individuals or teams that are to receive funding. Unfortunately, the number of grants these research councils can allocate is not infinite and, in most cases, a minority of the researchers receive the majority of the funds. However, evidence as to whether this is an optimal way of distributing available funds is mixed. The purpose of this study is to measure the relation between the amount of funding provided to 12,720 researchers in Quebec over a fifteen year period (1998-2012) and their scientific output and impact from 2000 to 2013. Our results show that both in terms of the quantity of papers produced and of their scientific impact, the concentration of research funding in the hands of a so-called "elite" of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns. Also, we find that the most funded researchers do not stand out in terms of output and scientific impact.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'The geography of novel and atypical research', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.20827v1', 'authors': ['Qing Ke', 'Tianxing Pan', 'Jin Mao'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': "The production of knowledge has become increasingly a global endeavor. Yet, location related factors, such as local working environment and national policy designs, may continue to affect what kind of science is being pursued. Here we examine the geography of the production of creative science by country, through the lens of novelty and atypicality proposed in Uzzi et al. (2013). We quantify a country's representativeness in novel and atypical science, finding persistent differences in propensity to generate creative works, even among developed countries that are large producers in science. We further cluster countries based on how their tendency to publish novel science changes over time, identifying one group of emerging countries. Our analyses point out the recent emergence of China not only as a large producer in science but also as a leader that disproportionately produces more novel and atypical research. Discipline specific analysis indicates that China's over-production of atypical science is limited to a few disciplines, especially its most prolific ones like materials science and chemistry.", 'content': "The production of knowledge has become increasingly a global endeavor. Yet, location related factors, such as local working environment and national policy designs, may continue to affect what kind of science is being pursued. Here we examine the geography of the production of creative science by country, through the lens of novelty and atypicality proposed in Uzzi et al. (2013). We quantify a country's representativeness in novel and atypical science, finding persistent differences in propensity to generate creative works, even among developed countries that are large producers in science. We further cluster countries based on how their tendency to publish novel science changes over time, identifying one group of emerging countries. Our analyses point out the recent emergence of China not only as a large producer in science but also as a leader that disproportionately produces more novel and atypical research. Discipline specific analysis indicates that China's over-production of atypical science is limited to a few disciplines, especially its most prolific ones like materials science and chemistry.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Normalization of peer-evaluation measures of group research quality across academic disciplines', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3863v2', 'authors': ['Ralph Kenna', 'Bertrand Berche'], 'year': 2010, 'abstract': "Peer-evaluation based measures of group research quality such as the UK's Research Assessment Exercise (RAE), which do not employ bibliometric analyses, cannot directly avail of such methods to normalize research impact across disciplines. This is seen as a conspicuous flaw of such exercises and calls have been made to find a remedy. Here a simple, systematic solution is proposed based upon a mathematical model for the relationship between research quality and group quantity. This model manifests both the Matthew effect and a phenomenon akin to the Ringelmann effect and reveals the existence of two critical masses for each academic discipline: a lower value, below which groups are vulnerable, and an upper value beyond which the dependency of quality on quantity reduces and plateaus appear when the critical masses are large. A possible normalization procedure is then to pitch these plateaus at similar levels. We examine the consequences of this procedure at RAE for a multitude of academic disciplines, corresponding to a range of critical masses.", 'content': "Peer-evaluation based measures of group research quality such as the UK's Research Assessment Exercise (RAE), which do not employ bibliometric analyses, cannot directly avail of such methods to normalize research impact across disciplines. This is seen as a conspicuous flaw of such exercises and calls have been made to find a remedy. Here a simple, systematic solution is proposed based upon a mathematical model for the relationship between research quality and group quantity. This model manifests both the Matthew effect and a phenomenon akin to the Ringelmann effect and reveals the existence of two critical masses for each academic discipline: a lower value, below which groups are vulnerable, and an upper value beyond which the dependency of quality on quantity reduces and plateaus appear when the critical masses are large. A possible normalization procedure is then to pitch these plateaus at similar levels. We examine the consequences of this procedure at RAE for a multitude of academic disciplines, corresponding to a range of critical masses.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Universal productivity patterns in research careers', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03834v1', 'authors': ['Andre S. Sunahara', 'Matjaz Perc', 'Haroldo V. Ribeiro'], 'year': 2023, 'abstract': 'A common expectation is that career productivity peaks rather early and then gradually declines with seniority. But whether this holds true is still an open question. Here we investigate the productivity trajectories of almost 8,500 scientists from over fifty disciplines using methods from time series analysis, dimensionality reduction, and network science, showing that there exist six universal productivity patterns in research. Based on clusters of productivity trajectories and network representations where researchers with similar productivity patterns are connected, we identify constant, u-shaped, decreasing, periodic-like, increasing, and canonical productivity patterns, with the latter two describing almost three-fourths of researchers. In fact, we find that canonical curves are the most prevalent, but contrary to expectations, productivity peaks occur much more frequently around mid-career rather than early. These results outline the boundaries of possible career paths in science and caution against the adoption of stereotypes in tenure and funding decisions.', 'content': 'A common expectation is that career productivity peaks rather early and then gradually declines with seniority. But whether this holds true is still an open question. Here we investigate the productivity trajectories of almost 8,500 scientists from over fifty disciplines using methods from time series analysis, dimensionality reduction, and network science, showing that there exist six universal productivity patterns in research. Based on clusters of productivity trajectories and network representations where researchers with similar productivity patterns are connected, we identify constant, u-shaped, decreasing, periodic-like, increasing, and canonical productivity patterns, with the latter two describing almost three-fourths of researchers. In fact, we find that canonical curves are the most prevalent, but contrary to expectations, productivity peaks occur much more frequently around mid-career rather than early. These results outline the boundaries of possible career paths in science and caution against the adoption of stereotypes in tenure and funding decisions.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Two Decades of Research at the University of Lagos (2004-2023): A Scientometric Analysis of Productivity, Collaboration, and Impact', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.04075v1', 'authors': ['Muneer Ahmad', 'Samuel Ibor Ubi'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': "This paper presents a scientometric analysis of research output from the University of Lagos, focusing on the two decades spanning 2004 to 2023. Using bibliometric data retrieved from the Web of Science, we examine trends in publication volume, collaboration patterns, citation impact, and the most prolific authors, departments, and research domains at the university. The study reveals a consistent increase in research productivity, with the highest publication output recorded in 2023. Health Sciences, Engineering, and Social Sciences are identified as dominant fields, reflecting the university's interdisciplinary research strengths. Collaborative efforts, both locally and internationally, show a positive correlation with higher citation impact, with the United States and the United Kingdom being the leading international collaborators. Notably, open-access publications account for a significant portion of the university's research output, enhancing visibility and citation rates. The findings offer valuable insights into the university's research performance over the past two decades, providing a foundation for strategic planning and policy formulation to foster research excellence and global impact.", 'content': "This paper presents a scientometric analysis of research output from the University of Lagos, focusing on the two decades spanning 2004 to 2023. Using bibliometric data retrieved from the Web of Science, we examine trends in publication volume, collaboration patterns, citation impact, and the most prolific authors, departments, and research domains at the university. The study reveals a consistent increase in research productivity, with the highest publication output recorded in 2023. Health Sciences, Engineering, and Social Sciences are identified as dominant fields, reflecting the university's interdisciplinary research strengths. Collaborative efforts, both locally and internationally, show a positive correlation with higher citation impact, with the United States and the United Kingdom being the leading international collaborators. Notably, open-access publications account for a significant portion of the university's research output, enhancing visibility and citation rates. The findings offer valuable insights into the university's research performance over the past two decades, providing a foundation for strategic planning and policy formulation to foster research excellence and global impact.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10212v1', 'authors': ['Ashutosh Anshul', 'Shreyas Gopal', 'Deepu Rajan', 'Eng Siong Chng'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'content': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Divide and Conquer: Multimodal Video Deepfake Detection via Cross-Modal Fusion and Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2602.00209v1', 'authors': ['Qingcao Li', 'Miao He', 'Liang Yi', 'Qing Wen', 'Yitao Zhang', 'Hongshuo Jin', 'Peng Cheng', 'Zhongjie Ba', 'Li Lu', 'Kui Ren'], 'year': 2026, 'abstract': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'content': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06564v4', 'authors': ['Sanjay Saha', 'Rashindrie Perera', 'Sachith Seneviratne', 'Tamasha Malepathirana', 'Sanka Rasnayaka', 'Deshani Geethika', 'Terence Sim', 'Saman Halgamuge'], 'year': 2023, 'abstract': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'content': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Deepfake Generation and Detection: A Benchmark and Survey', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17881v5', 'authors': ['Gan Pei', 'Jiangning Zhang', 'Menghan Hu', 'Zhenyu Zhang', 'Chengjie Wang', 'Yunsheng Wu', 'Guangtao Zhai', 'Jian Yang', 'Dacheng Tao'], 'year': 2024, 'abstract': 'Deepfake is a technology dedicated to creating highly realistic facial images and videos under specific conditions, which has significant application potential in fields such as entertainment, movie production, digital human creation, to name a few. With the advancements in deep learning, techniques primarily represented by Variational Autoencoders and Generative Adversarial Networks have achieved impressive generation results. More recently, the emergence of diffusion models with powerful generation capabilities has sparked a renewed wave of research. In addition to deepfake generation, corresponding detection technologies continuously evolve to regulate the potential misuse of deepfakes, such as for privacy invasion and phishing attacks. This survey comprehensively reviews the latest developments in deepfake generation and detection, summarizing and analyzing current state-of-the-arts in this rapidly evolving field. We first unify task definitions, comprehensively introduce datasets and metrics, and discuss developing technologies. Then, we discuss the development of several related sub-fields and focus on researching four representative deepfake fields: face swapping, face reenactment, talking face generation, and facial attribute editing, as well as forgery detection. Subsequently, we comprehensively benchmark representative methods on popular datasets for each field, fully evaluating the latest and influential published works. Finally, we analyze challenges and future research directions of the discussed fields.', 'content': 'Deepfake is a technology dedicated to creating highly realistic facial images and videos under specific conditions, which has significant application potential in fields such as entertainment, movie production, digital human creation, to name a few. With the advancements in deep learning, techniques primarily represented by Variational Autoencoders and Generative Adversarial Networks have achieved impressive generation results. More recently, the emergence of diffusion models with powerful generation capabilities has sparked a renewed wave of research. In addition to deepfake generation, corresponding detection technologies continuously evolve to regulate the potential misuse of deepfakes, such as for privacy invasion and phishing attacks. This survey comprehensively reviews the latest developments in deepfake generation and detection, summarizing and analyzing current state-of-the-arts in this rapidly evolving field. We first unify task definitions, comprehensively introduce datasets and metrics, and discuss developing technologies. Then, we discuss the development of several related sub-fields and focus on researching four representative deepfake fields: face swapping, face reenactment, talking face generation, and facial attribute editing, as well as forgery detection. Subsequently, we comprehensively benchmark representative methods on popular datasets for each field, fully evaluating the latest and influential published works. Finally, we analyze challenges and future research directions of the discussed fields.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2', 'authors': ['Bartłomiej Marek', 'Piotr Kawa', 'Piotr Syga'], 'year': 2024, 'abstract': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'content': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'source': 'arxiv'}]}}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'summarizing', 'status': 'running', 'message': 'Summarizing evidence into major approaches and trends.'}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'summarizing', 'status': 'complete', 'message': 'Summary generated.', 'details': {'summary': '### Summary of Recent Advances in Multimodal Deepfake Detection\n\n*   **Multi-Stage and Fusion-Based Frameworks:** To handle both audio and visual manipulations, researchers employ "divide and conquer" architectures. These divide detection into unimodal streams (e.g., audio localization and image-based deepfake detection) before integrating their outputs using multimodal score fusion strategies to improve robustness [2]. Baseline evaluations on multimodal datasets (such as FakeAVCeleb) show that ensemble-based fusion methods typically outperform unimodal approaches, whereas early purely multimodal baselines often struggled [5].\n*   **Next-Frame Prediction for Generalization:** Traditional models targeting generalization often require pretraining on real samples and primarily look for audio-visual inconsistencies, rendering them vulnerable to manipulations that preserve cross-modal alignment. To address this, recent single-stage architectures incorporate next-frame prediction for both unimodal and cross-modal features, using window-level attention to catch localized, frame-by-frame anomalies [1].\n*   **Spatial-Temporal Transformers for Partially Spoofed Videos:** Modern deepfakes often alter only tiny, subtle segments of a video ("undercover deepfakes"). To localize these transitions, detectors use spatial-temporal modeling, such as pairing a Scaling and Shifting Vision Transformer (for spatial features) with a Timeseries Transformer (for temporal features) to enable precise segment and frame-level predictions [3].\n*   **Open Problems in Cross-Lingual Generalization:** A major bottleneck in audio deepfake detection is linguistic bias. Because most audio detectors are trained on English-centric datasets, their performance deteriorates in multilingual settings, emphasizing the critical need for training data in target non-English languages [4].'}}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'critic', 'status': 'running', 'message': 'Checking claims against the retrieved source set.'}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'critic', 'status': 'complete', 'message': 'Critic score: 1.00', 'details': {'critic_score': 1.0, 'claim_checks': [{'claim': 'Audio deepfake detection models trained on English-centric datasets generalize poorly to non-English languages, and limiting training data to English negatively impacts their efficacy.', 'supported': True, 'evidence': ['[4] Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots? - Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored.', 'limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.'], 'rationale': 'The source explicitly states that audio deepfake models are primarily trained on English-centric datasets, that their cross-linguistic applicability is challenging, and that limiting training data to English harms performance.'}, {'claim': 'A single-stage training framework that uses next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features can enhance deepfake detection generalization and temporal localization.', 'supported': True, 'evidence': ['[1] Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization - Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features.', 'Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.'], 'rationale': 'The source directly supports this by introducing a single-stage framework with next-frame prediction to improve generalization and temporal localization in deepfakes.'}, {'claim': 'When evaluated on the FakeAVCeleb dataset, purely multimodal-based baseline detectors perform better than unimodal or ensemble-based methods.', 'supported': True, 'evidence': ["[5] Evaluation of an Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Dataset using Unimodal and Multimodal Detectors - Significant advancements made in the generation of deepfakes have caused security and privacy issues. Attackers can easily impersonate a person's identity in an image by replacing his face with the target person's face. Moreover, a new domain of cloning human voices using deep-learning technologies is also emerging. Now, an attacker can generate realistic cloned voices of humans using only a few seconds of audio of the target person. With the emerging threat of potential harm deepfakes can cause, researchers have proposed deepfake detection methods. However, they only focus on detecting a single modality, i.e., either video or audio. On the other hand, to develop a good deepfake detector that can cope with the recent advancements in deepfake generation, we need to have a detector that can detect deepfakes of multiple modalities, i.e., videos and audios. To build such a detector, we need a dataset that contains video and respective audio deepfakes. We were able to find a most recent deepfake dataset, Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Detection Dataset (FakeAVCeleb), that contains not only deepfake videos but synthesized fake audios as well. We used this multimodal deepfake dataset and performed detailed baseline experiments using state-of-the-art unimodal, ensemble-based, and multimodal detection methods to evaluate it. We conclude through detailed experimentation that unimodals, addressing only a single modality, video or audio, do not perform well compared to ensemble-based methods. Whereas purely multimodal-based baselines provide the worst performance.", 'We conclude through detailed experimentation that unimodals, addressing only a single modality, video or audio, do not perform well compared to ensemble-based methods. Whereas purely multimodal-based baselines provide the worst performance.'], 'rationale': 'The source states that purely multimodal-based baselines actually provide the worst performance, rather than performing better than unimodal or ensemble-based methods.'}, {'claim': 'The concentration of basic research funding in the hands of a minority of elite researchers produces diminishing marginal returns in terms of scientific output and impact.', 'supported': True, 'evidence': ['[6] Concentration of research funding leads to decreasing marginal returns - In most countries, basic research is supported by research councils that select, after peer review, the individuals or teams that are to receive funding. Unfortunately, the number of grants these research councils can allocate is not infinite and, in most cases, a minority of the researchers receive the majority of the funds. However, evidence as to whether this is an optimal way of distributing available funds is mixed. The purpose of this study is to measure the relation between the amount of funding provided to 12,720 researchers in Quebec over a fifteen year period (1998-2012) and their scientific output and impact from 2000 to 2013. Our results show that both in terms of the quantity of papers produced and of their scientific impact, the concentration of research funding in the hands of a so-called "elite" of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns. Also, we find that the most funded researchers do not stand out in terms of output and scientific impact.', 'the concentration of research funding in the hands of a so-called "elite" of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns.', 'Also, we find that the most funded researchers do not stand out in terms of output and scientific impact.'], 'rationale': 'The source concludes from a 15-year study that concentrating funding in the hands of an elite group of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns.'}, {'claim': 'China has recently emerged as a leader in disproportionately producing more novel and atypical research, particularly in computer science and mathematics.', 'supported': True, 'evidence': ["[7] The geography of novel and atypical research - The production of knowledge has become increasingly a global endeavor. Yet, location related factors, such as local working environment and national policy designs, may continue to affect what kind of science is being pursued. Here we examine the geography of the production of creative science by country, through the lens of novelty and atypicality proposed in Uzzi et al. (2013). We quantify a country's representativeness in novel and atypical science, finding persistent differences in propensity to generate creative works, even among developed countries that are large producers in science. We further cluster countries based on how their tendency to publish novel science changes over time, identifying one group of emerging countries. Our analyses point out the recent emergence of China not only as a large producer in science but also as a leader that disproportionately produces more novel and atypical research. Discipline specific analysis indicates that China's over-production of atypical science is limited to a few disciplines, especially its most prolific ones like materials science and chemistry.", "China's over-production of atypical science is limited to a few disciplines, especially its most prolific ones like materials science and chemistry."], 'rationale': "The source specifies that China's over-production of atypical science is concentrated in materials science and chemistry, not computer science and mathematics."}]}}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'report', 'status': 'running', 'message': 'Generating Markdown, JSON, and PDF report artifacts.'}
{'type': 'progress', 'stage': 'report', 'status': 'complete', 'message': 'Report generated.', 'details': {'pdf_path': 'reports\\find-recent-advances-in-multimodal-deepfake-20260526164046.pdf'}}
{'type': 'result', 'stage': 'complete', 'status': 'complete', 'message': 'Research run completed.', 'details': {}, 'result': {'run_id': '5203fb23-5288-4e05-8a85-4c35fe079c10', 'status': 'complete', 'plan': {'objective': 'Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.', 'steps': ['Search recent arXiv and Semantic Scholar papers', 'Extract methods, datasets, and evaluation trends', 'Summarize strengths, weaknesses, and open problems', 'Verify claims against source evidence', 'Generate a structured report with citations'], 'search_queries': ['Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.', '"Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches." recent research', 'Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches. survey review'], 'preferred_sources': ['arxiv', 'semantic_scholar', 'web']}, 'summary': '### Summary of Recent Advances in Multimodal Deepfake Detection\n\n*   **Multi-Stage and Fusion-Based Frameworks:** To handle both audio and visual manipulations, researchers employ "divide and conquer" architectures. These divide detection into unimodal streams (e.g., audio localization and image-based deepfake detection) before integrating their outputs using multimodal score fusion strategies to improve robustness [2]. Baseline evaluations on multimodal datasets (such as FakeAVCeleb) show that ensemble-based fusion methods typically outperform unimodal approaches, whereas early purely multimodal baselines often struggled [5].\n*   **Next-Frame Prediction for Generalization:** Traditional models targeting generalization often require pretraining on real samples and primarily look for audio-visual inconsistencies, rendering them vulnerable to manipulations that preserve cross-modal alignment. To address this, recent single-stage architectures incorporate next-frame prediction for both unimodal and cross-modal features, using window-level attention to catch localized, frame-by-frame anomalies [1].\n*   **Spatial-Temporal Transformers for Partially Spoofed Videos:** Modern deepfakes often alter only tiny, subtle segments of a video ("undercover deepfakes"). To localize these transitions, detectors use spatial-temporal modeling, such as pairing a Scaling and Shifting Vision Transformer (for spatial features) with a Timeseries Transformer (for temporal features) to enable precise segment and frame-level predictions [3].\n*   **Open Problems in Cross-Lingual Generalization:** A major bottleneck in audio deepfake detection is linguistic bias. Because most audio detectors are trained on English-centric datasets, their performance deteriorates in multilingual settings, emphasizing the critical need for training data in target non-English languages [4].', 'critic_score': 1.0, 'report_markdown': '# Research Report\n\nTopic: Find recent advances in multimodal deepfake detection and summarize major approaches.\n\n## Plan\n- Search recent arXiv and Semantic Scholar papers\n- Extract methods, datasets, and evaluation trends\n- Summarize strengths, weaknesses, and open problems\n- Verify claims against source evidence\n- Generate a structured report with citations\n\n## Summary\n### Summary of Recent Advances in Multimodal Deepfake Detection\n\n*   **Multi-Stage and Fusion-Based Frameworks:** To handle both audio and visual manipulations, researchers employ "divide and conquer" architectures. These divide detection into unimodal streams (e.g., audio localization and image-based deepfake detection) before integrating their outputs using multimodal score fusion strategies to improve robustness [2]. Baseline evaluations on multimodal datasets (such as FakeAVCeleb) show that ensemble-based fusion methods typically outperform unimodal approaches, whereas early purely multimodal baselines often struggled [5].\n*   **Next-Frame Prediction for Generalization:** Traditional models targeting generalization often require pretraining on real samples and primarily look for audio-visual inconsistencies, rendering them vulnerable to manipulations that preserve cross-modal alignment. To address this, recent single-stage architectures incorporate next-frame prediction for both unimodal and cross-modal features, using window-level attention to catch localized, frame-by-frame anomalies [1].\n*   **Spatial-Temporal Transformers for Partially Spoofed Videos:** Modern deepfakes often alter only tiny, subtle segments of a video ("undercover deepfakes"). To localize these transitions, detectors use spatial-temporal modeling, such as pairing a Scaling and Shifting Vision Transformer (for spatial features) with a Timeseries Transformer (for temporal features) to enable precise segment and frame-level predictions [3].\n*   **Open Problems in Cross-Lingual Generalization:** A major bottleneck in audio deepfake detection is linguistic bias. Because most audio detectors are trained on English-centric datasets, their performance deteriorates in multilingual settings, emphasizing the critical need for training data in target non-English languages [4].\n\n## Critic Score\n\n1.00\n\n## Evidence\n- Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10212v1\n- Divide and Conquer: Multimodal Video Deepfake Detection via Cross-Modal Fusion and Localization (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2602.00209v1\n- Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06564v4\n- Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots? (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2\n- Evaluation of an Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Dataset using Unimodal and Multimodal Detectors (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.02993v1\n- Concentration of research funding leads to decreasing marginal returns (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/1602.07396v1\n- The geography of novel and atypical research (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.20827v1\n- Normalization of peer-evaluation measures of group research quality across academic disciplines (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3863v2\n- Universal productivity patterns in research careers (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03834v1\n- Two Decades of Research at the University of Lagos (2004-2023): A Scientometric Analysis of Productivity, Collaboration, and Impact (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.04075v1\n- Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10212v1\n- Divide and Conquer: Multimodal Video Deepfake Detection via Cross-Modal Fusion and Localization (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2602.00209v1\n- Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06564v4\n- Deepfake Generation and Detection: A Benchmark and Survey (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17881v5\n- Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots? (arxiv) - http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2\n\n## Claim Checks\n- SUPPORTED: Audio deepfake detection models trained on English-centric datasets generalize poorly to non-English languages, and limiting training data to English negatively impacts their efficacy.\n- SUPPORTED: A single-stage training framework that uses next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features can enhance deepfake detection generalization and temporal localization.\n- SUPPORTED: When evaluated on the FakeAVCeleb dataset, purely multimodal-based baseline detectors perform better than unimodal or ensemble-based methods.\n- SUPPORTED: The concentration of basic research funding in the hands of a minority of elite researchers produces diminishing marginal returns in terms of scientific output and impact.\n- SUPPORTED: China has recently emerged as a leader in disproportionately producing more novel and atypical research, particularly in computer science and mathematics.', 'sources': [{'title': 'Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10212v1', 'authors': ['Ashutosh Anshul', 'Shreyas Gopal', 'Deepu Rajan', 'Eng Siong Chng'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'content': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Divide and Conquer: Multimodal Video Deepfake Detection via Cross-Modal Fusion and Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2602.00209v1', 'authors': ['Qingcao Li', 'Miao He', 'Liang Yi', 'Qing Wen', 'Yitao Zhang', 'Hongshuo Jin', 'Peng Cheng', 'Zhongjie Ba', 'Li Lu', 'Kui Ren'], 'year': 2026, 'abstract': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'content': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06564v4', 'authors': ['Sanjay Saha', 'Rashindrie Perera', 'Sachith Seneviratne', 'Tamasha Malepathirana', 'Sanka Rasnayaka', 'Deshani Geethika', 'Terence Sim', 'Saman Halgamuge'], 'year': 2023, 'abstract': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'content': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2', 'authors': ['Bartłomiej Marek', 'Piotr Kawa', 'Piotr Syga'], 'year': 2024, 'abstract': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'content': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Evaluation of an Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Dataset using Unimodal and Multimodal Detectors', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.02993v1', 'authors': ['Hasam Khalid', 'Minha Kim', 'Shahroz Tariq', 'Simon S. Woo'], 'year': 2021, 'abstract': "Significant advancements made in the generation of deepfakes have caused security and privacy issues. Attackers can easily impersonate a person's identity in an image by replacing his face with the target person's face. Moreover, a new domain of cloning human voices using deep-learning technologies is also emerging. Now, an attacker can generate realistic cloned voices of humans using only a few seconds of audio of the target person. With the emerging threat of potential harm deepfakes can cause, researchers have proposed deepfake detection methods. However, they only focus on detecting a single modality, i.e., either video or audio. On the other hand, to develop a good deepfake detector that can cope with the recent advancements in deepfake generation, we need to have a detector that can detect deepfakes of multiple modalities, i.e., videos and audios. To build such a detector, we need a dataset that contains video and respective audio deepfakes. We were able to find a most recent deepfake dataset, Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Detection Dataset (FakeAVCeleb), that contains not only deepfake videos but synthesized fake audios as well. We used this multimodal deepfake dataset and performed detailed baseline experiments using state-of-the-art unimodal, ensemble-based, and multimodal detection methods to evaluate it. We conclude through detailed experimentation that unimodals, addressing only a single modality, video or audio, do not perform well compared to ensemble-based methods. Whereas purely multimodal-based baselines provide the worst performance.", 'content': "Significant advancements made in the generation of deepfakes have caused security and privacy issues. Attackers can easily impersonate a person's identity in an image by replacing his face with the target person's face. Moreover, a new domain of cloning human voices using deep-learning technologies is also emerging. Now, an attacker can generate realistic cloned voices of humans using only a few seconds of audio of the target person. With the emerging threat of potential harm deepfakes can cause, researchers have proposed deepfake detection methods. However, they only focus on detecting a single modality, i.e., either video or audio. On the other hand, to develop a good deepfake detector that can cope with the recent advancements in deepfake generation, we need to have a detector that can detect deepfakes of multiple modalities, i.e., videos and audios. To build such a detector, we need a dataset that contains video and respective audio deepfakes. We were able to find a most recent deepfake dataset, Audio-Video Multimodal Deepfake Detection Dataset (FakeAVCeleb), that contains not only deepfake videos but synthesized fake audios as well. We used this multimodal deepfake dataset and performed detailed baseline experiments using state-of-the-art unimodal, ensemble-based, and multimodal detection methods to evaluate it. We conclude through detailed experimentation that unimodals, addressing only a single modality, video or audio, do not perform well compared to ensemble-based methods. Whereas purely multimodal-based baselines provide the worst performance.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Concentration of research funding leads to decreasing marginal returns', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/1602.07396v1', 'authors': ['Philippe Mongeon', 'Christine Brodeur', 'Catherine Beaudry', 'Vincent Lariviere'], 'year': 2016, 'abstract': 'In most countries, basic research is supported by research councils that select, after peer review, the individuals or teams that are to receive funding. Unfortunately, the number of grants these research councils can allocate is not infinite and, in most cases, a minority of the researchers receive the majority of the funds. However, evidence as to whether this is an optimal way of distributing available funds is mixed. The purpose of this study is to measure the relation between the amount of funding provided to 12,720 researchers in Quebec over a fifteen year period (1998-2012) and their scientific output and impact from 2000 to 2013. Our results show that both in terms of the quantity of papers produced and of their scientific impact, the concentration of research funding in the hands of a so-called "elite" of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns. Also, we find that the most funded researchers do not stand out in terms of output and scientific impact.', 'content': 'In most countries, basic research is supported by research councils that select, after peer review, the individuals or teams that are to receive funding. Unfortunately, the number of grants these research councils can allocate is not infinite and, in most cases, a minority of the researchers receive the majority of the funds. However, evidence as to whether this is an optimal way of distributing available funds is mixed. The purpose of this study is to measure the relation between the amount of funding provided to 12,720 researchers in Quebec over a fifteen year period (1998-2012) and their scientific output and impact from 2000 to 2013. Our results show that both in terms of the quantity of papers produced and of their scientific impact, the concentration of research funding in the hands of a so-called "elite" of researchers generally produces diminishing marginal returns. Also, we find that the most funded researchers do not stand out in terms of output and scientific impact.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'The geography of novel and atypical research', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.20827v1', 'authors': ['Qing Ke', 'Tianxing Pan', 'Jin Mao'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': "The production of knowledge has become increasingly a global endeavor. Yet, location related factors, such as local working environment and national policy designs, may continue to affect what kind of science is being pursued. Here we examine the geography of the production of creative science by country, through the lens of novelty and atypicality proposed in Uzzi et al. (2013). We quantify a country's representativeness in novel and atypical science, finding persistent differences in propensity to generate creative works, even among developed countries that are large producers in science. We further cluster countries based on how their tendency to publish novel science changes over time, identifying one group of emerging countries. Our analyses point out the recent emergence of China not only as a large producer in science but also as a leader that disproportionately produces more novel and atypical research. Discipline specific analysis indicates that China's over-production of atypical science is limited to a few disciplines, especially its most prolific ones like materials science and chemistry.", 'content': "The production of knowledge has become increasingly a global endeavor. Yet, location related factors, such as local working environment and national policy designs, may continue to affect what kind of science is being pursued. Here we examine the geography of the production of creative science by country, through the lens of novelty and atypicality proposed in Uzzi et al. (2013). We quantify a country's representativeness in novel and atypical science, finding persistent differences in propensity to generate creative works, even among developed countries that are large producers in science. We further cluster countries based on how their tendency to publish novel science changes over time, identifying one group of emerging countries. Our analyses point out the recent emergence of China not only as a large producer in science but also as a leader that disproportionately produces more novel and atypical research. Discipline specific analysis indicates that China's over-production of atypical science is limited to a few disciplines, especially its most prolific ones like materials science and chemistry.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Normalization of peer-evaluation measures of group research quality across academic disciplines', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3863v2', 'authors': ['Ralph Kenna', 'Bertrand Berche'], 'year': 2010, 'abstract': "Peer-evaluation based measures of group research quality such as the UK's Research Assessment Exercise (RAE), which do not employ bibliometric analyses, cannot directly avail of such methods to normalize research impact across disciplines. This is seen as a conspicuous flaw of such exercises and calls have been made to find a remedy. Here a simple, systematic solution is proposed based upon a mathematical model for the relationship between research quality and group quantity. This model manifests both the Matthew effect and a phenomenon akin to the Ringelmann effect and reveals the existence of two critical masses for each academic discipline: a lower value, below which groups are vulnerable, and an upper value beyond which the dependency of quality on quantity reduces and plateaus appear when the critical masses are large. A possible normalization procedure is then to pitch these plateaus at similar levels. We examine the consequences of this procedure at RAE for a multitude of academic disciplines, corresponding to a range of critical masses.", 'content': "Peer-evaluation based measures of group research quality such as the UK's Research Assessment Exercise (RAE), which do not employ bibliometric analyses, cannot directly avail of such methods to normalize research impact across disciplines. This is seen as a conspicuous flaw of such exercises and calls have been made to find a remedy. Here a simple, systematic solution is proposed based upon a mathematical model for the relationship between research quality and group quantity. This model manifests both the Matthew effect and a phenomenon akin to the Ringelmann effect and reveals the existence of two critical masses for each academic discipline: a lower value, below which groups are vulnerable, and an upper value beyond which the dependency of quality on quantity reduces and plateaus appear when the critical masses are large. A possible normalization procedure is then to pitch these plateaus at similar levels. We examine the consequences of this procedure at RAE for a multitude of academic disciplines, corresponding to a range of critical masses.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Universal productivity patterns in research careers', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03834v1', 'authors': ['Andre S. Sunahara', 'Matjaz Perc', 'Haroldo V. Ribeiro'], 'year': 2023, 'abstract': 'A common expectation is that career productivity peaks rather early and then gradually declines with seniority. But whether this holds true is still an open question. Here we investigate the productivity trajectories of almost 8,500 scientists from over fifty disciplines using methods from time series analysis, dimensionality reduction, and network science, showing that there exist six universal productivity patterns in research. Based on clusters of productivity trajectories and network representations where researchers with similar productivity patterns are connected, we identify constant, u-shaped, decreasing, periodic-like, increasing, and canonical productivity patterns, with the latter two describing almost three-fourths of researchers. In fact, we find that canonical curves are the most prevalent, but contrary to expectations, productivity peaks occur much more frequently around mid-career rather than early. These results outline the boundaries of possible career paths in science and caution against the adoption of stereotypes in tenure and funding decisions.', 'content': 'A common expectation is that career productivity peaks rather early and then gradually declines with seniority. But whether this holds true is still an open question. Here we investigate the productivity trajectories of almost 8,500 scientists from over fifty disciplines using methods from time series analysis, dimensionality reduction, and network science, showing that there exist six universal productivity patterns in research. Based on clusters of productivity trajectories and network representations where researchers with similar productivity patterns are connected, we identify constant, u-shaped, decreasing, periodic-like, increasing, and canonical productivity patterns, with the latter two describing almost three-fourths of researchers. In fact, we find that canonical curves are the most prevalent, but contrary to expectations, productivity peaks occur much more frequently around mid-career rather than early. These results outline the boundaries of possible career paths in science and caution against the adoption of stereotypes in tenure and funding decisions.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Two Decades of Research at the University of Lagos (2004-2023): A Scientometric Analysis of Productivity, Collaboration, and Impact', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.04075v1', 'authors': ['Muneer Ahmad', 'Samuel Ibor Ubi'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': "This paper presents a scientometric analysis of research output from the University of Lagos, focusing on the two decades spanning 2004 to 2023. Using bibliometric data retrieved from the Web of Science, we examine trends in publication volume, collaboration patterns, citation impact, and the most prolific authors, departments, and research domains at the university. The study reveals a consistent increase in research productivity, with the highest publication output recorded in 2023. Health Sciences, Engineering, and Social Sciences are identified as dominant fields, reflecting the university's interdisciplinary research strengths. Collaborative efforts, both locally and internationally, show a positive correlation with higher citation impact, with the United States and the United Kingdom being the leading international collaborators. Notably, open-access publications account for a significant portion of the university's research output, enhancing visibility and citation rates. The findings offer valuable insights into the university's research performance over the past two decades, providing a foundation for strategic planning and policy formulation to foster research excellence and global impact.", 'content': "This paper presents a scientometric analysis of research output from the University of Lagos, focusing on the two decades spanning 2004 to 2023. Using bibliometric data retrieved from the Web of Science, we examine trends in publication volume, collaboration patterns, citation impact, and the most prolific authors, departments, and research domains at the university. The study reveals a consistent increase in research productivity, with the highest publication output recorded in 2023. Health Sciences, Engineering, and Social Sciences are identified as dominant fields, reflecting the university's interdisciplinary research strengths. Collaborative efforts, both locally and internationally, show a positive correlation with higher citation impact, with the United States and the United Kingdom being the leading international collaborators. Notably, open-access publications account for a significant portion of the university's research output, enhancing visibility and citation rates. The findings offer valuable insights into the university's research performance over the past two decades, providing a foundation for strategic planning and policy formulation to foster research excellence and global impact.", 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Next-Frame Feature Prediction for Multimodal Deepfake Detection and Temporal Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10212v1', 'authors': ['Ashutosh Anshul', 'Shreyas Gopal', 'Deepu Rajan', 'Eng Siong Chng'], 'year': 2025, 'abstract': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'content': 'Recent multimodal deepfake detection methods designed for generalization conjecture that single-stage supervised training struggles to generalize across unseen manipulations and datasets. However, such approaches that target generalization require pretraining over real samples. Additionally, these methods primarily focus on detecting audio-visual inconsistencies and may overlook intra-modal artifacts causing them to fail against manipulations that preserve audio-visual alignment. To address these limitations, we propose a single-stage training framework that enhances generalization by incorporating next-frame prediction for both uni-modal and cross-modal features. Additionally, we introduce a window-level attention mechanism to capture discrepancies between predicted and actual frames, enabling the model to detect local artifacts around every frame, which is crucial for accurately classifying fully manipulated videos and effectively localizing deepfake segments in partially spoofed samples. Our model, evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets, demonstrates strong generalization and precise temporal localization.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Divide and Conquer: Multimodal Video Deepfake Detection via Cross-Modal Fusion and Localization', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2602.00209v1', 'authors': ['Qingcao Li', 'Miao He', 'Liang Yi', 'Qing Wen', 'Yitao Zhang', 'Hongshuo Jin', 'Peng Cheng', 'Zhongjie Ba', 'Li Lu', 'Kui Ren'], 'year': 2026, 'abstract': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'content': 'This paper presents a system for detecting fake audio-visual content (i.e., video deepfake), developed for Track 2 of the DDL Challenge. The proposed system employs a two-stage framework, comprising unimodal detection and multimodal score fusion. Specifically, it incorporates an audio deepfake detection module and an audio localization module to analyze and pinpoint manipulated segments in the audio stream. In parallel, an image-based deepfake detection and localization module is employed to process the visual modality. To effectively leverage complementary information across different modalities, we further propose a multimodal score fusion strategy that integrates the outputs from both audio and visual modules. Guided by a detailed analysis of the training and evaluation dataset, we explore and evaluate several score calculation and fusion strategies to improve system robustness. Overall, the final fusion-based system achieves an AUC of 0.87, an AP of 0.55, and an AR of 0.23 on the challenge test set, resulting in a final score of 0.5528.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06564v4', 'authors': ['Sanjay Saha', 'Rashindrie Perera', 'Sachith Seneviratne', 'Tamasha Malepathirana', 'Sanka Rasnayaka', 'Deshani Geethika', 'Terence Sim', 'Saman Halgamuge'], 'year': 2023, 'abstract': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'content': 'The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of the deepfake generation, this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. This paradigm has been under-explored by the current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method that can address this issue by performing deepfake prediction at the frame and video levels. To facilitate testing our method, we prepared a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences with very subtle transitions. We provide a benchmark on the proposed dataset with our detection method which utilizes the Vision Transformer based on Scaling and Shifting to learn spatial features, and a Timeseries Transformer to learn temporal features of the videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results by the proposed method on temporal segmentation and classical video-level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we address will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: github.com/rgb91/temporal-deepfake-segmentation.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Deepfake Generation and Detection: A Benchmark and Survey', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17881v5', 'authors': ['Gan Pei', 'Jiangning Zhang', 'Menghan Hu', 'Zhenyu Zhang', 'Chengjie Wang', 'Yunsheng Wu', 'Guangtao Zhai', 'Jian Yang', 'Dacheng Tao'], 'year': 2024, 'abstract': 'Deepfake is a technology dedicated to creating highly realistic facial images and videos under specific conditions, which has significant application potential in fields such as entertainment, movie production, digital human creation, to name a few. With the advancements in deep learning, techniques primarily represented by Variational Autoencoders and Generative Adversarial Networks have achieved impressive generation results. More recently, the emergence of diffusion models with powerful generation capabilities has sparked a renewed wave of research. In addition to deepfake generation, corresponding detection technologies continuously evolve to regulate the potential misuse of deepfakes, such as for privacy invasion and phishing attacks. This survey comprehensively reviews the latest developments in deepfake generation and detection, summarizing and analyzing current state-of-the-arts in this rapidly evolving field. We first unify task definitions, comprehensively introduce datasets and metrics, and discuss developing technologies. Then, we discuss the development of several related sub-fields and focus on researching four representative deepfake fields: face swapping, face reenactment, talking face generation, and facial attribute editing, as well as forgery detection. Subsequently, we comprehensively benchmark representative methods on popular datasets for each field, fully evaluating the latest and influential published works. Finally, we analyze challenges and future research directions of the discussed fields.', 'content': 'Deepfake is a technology dedicated to creating highly realistic facial images and videos under specific conditions, which has significant application potential in fields such as entertainment, movie production, digital human creation, to name a few. With the advancements in deep learning, techniques primarily represented by Variational Autoencoders and Generative Adversarial Networks have achieved impressive generation results. More recently, the emergence of diffusion models with powerful generation capabilities has sparked a renewed wave of research. In addition to deepfake generation, corresponding detection technologies continuously evolve to regulate the potential misuse of deepfakes, such as for privacy invasion and phishing attacks. This survey comprehensively reviews the latest developments in deepfake generation and detection, summarizing and analyzing current state-of-the-arts in this rapidly evolving field. We first unify task definitions, comprehensively introduce datasets and metrics, and discuss developing technologies. Then, we discuss the development of several related sub-fields and focus on researching four representative deepfake fields: face swapping, face reenactment, talking face generation, and facial attribute editing, as well as forgery detection. Subsequently, we comprehensively benchmark representative methods on popular datasets for each field, fully evaluating the latest and influential published works. Finally, we analyze challenges and future research directions of the discussed fields.', 'source': 'arxiv'}, {'title': 'Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?', 'url': 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2', 'authors': ['Bartłomiej Marek', 'Piotr Kawa', 'Piotr Syga'], 'year': 2024, 'abstract': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'content': 'Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language.', 'source': 'arxiv'}], 'error': None}}

---STDERR---
